******Jagannath Hall******

Jagannath Hall of Dhaka University is a residence hall
for minority students, Hindu, Buddhist, Christian, and others.
 It is one of the three original residence halls that date from 
when the University was founded in 1921, and like them is 
modelled on the colleges of the University of Oxford, a complex
 of buildings including residences, meeting rooms, dining 
rooms, a prayer hall, gardens, and sporting facilities. Of the 
approximately 2000 students of the hall, half live in the residences,
 and half are non-residential students affiliated with the college. 
Several professors at the university hold the positions of house tutors 
and provost at the hall.

The hall includes four residential buildings:
•Govinda Chandra Dev building
•Sontosh Chandra Bhattacharya Bhavan (New Building)
•October Memorial Building (October Smiriti Bhaban) 
•Jyotirmoy Guhathakurta building

Kisorilal Roy Chowdhury, the Zamindar of Baliati in Tangail, who had 
previously established Jagannath College named after his father Jagannath Saha, also 
established this hall of University of Dhaka.

25 March  1971: After midnight on 25 March 1971 the campaign of 
genocide against intellectuals by the Pakistani army took place in the
 Dhaka University area. Jagannath Hall could not be defended against
 this action, and many residential students and employees were killed 
on that night. Professor Jyotirmoy Guhathakura and Professor Govinda 
Chandra Dev, the former and current provosts, were also murdered at 
their apartments on Secretariat Road.

15 October 1985: On 15 October 1985, a tragic accident occurred when the roof of the 
ancient assembly building of Jagannath Hall collapsed. It killed 39 people, students, 
employees and guests. Since then the day is observed as a day of mourning for the 
university.In 1988 the building was reconstructed as a residential building, and named 
October Memorial Building.

Nearby Places: Central Shahid Minar, TSC, Shamshunnahar Hall.
