****Faculty of Social Sciences****

The Faculty of Social Sciences is one of the oldest, largest, and most diverse academic units 
at the University of Dhaka. Since its foundation on 2 October 1970, the Faculty has expanded 
in size and importance to include a wide range of academic disciplines that study human culture, 
society and politics, and that are theoretically based and empirically well-founded. The Faculty 
has set its goal to impart interdisciplinary knowledge, skills, and values to students in order 
to contribute to their academic and professional development.

The Faculty of social sciences is 
organized into 16 academic Departments which are responsible for undergraduate and postgraduate 
teaching and research The Departments which constitute the Faculty are: Department of Economics, 
Department of Political Science, Department of international Relations, Department of Sociology, 
Department of Mass Communication and Journalism, Department of Public Administration, Department 
of Anthropology, Department of Population Sciences, Department of Peace and conflict Studies, 
Department of Women and, Gender Studies, Department of Development Studies, Department of 
Television, Film and Photography, Department of Criminology, Department of Communication Disorders 
Department of Printing and Publication Studies, and Department of Japanese Studies.

These academic 
Departments in the Faculty provide an intellectually challenging learning and research experience 
within a supportive educational setting, ensuring that students can achieve their full academic 
potential and build successful career paths. In addition, the Faculty is committed to delivering 
innovative, inspirational, and effective teaching. Faculty members are as devoted to teaching as 
they are to research, bringing their knowledge and expertise into the classroom and motivating 
students to develop and flourish in stimulating academic and social environment. A wide spectrum 
of courses/programs offered by different Departments under the Faculty helps students gain a strong 
grounding in critical/analytical thinking and research skills.

The Faculty of Social Sciences, in 
coordination with its constituent Departments, runs undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate 
programs and conducts advanced research across diverse fields of social science. The Faculty's 
collaborative and interdisciplinary research focuses on the most pressing issues and concerns of 
the society.

The Faculty is headed by the Dean who is elected for a term of two years. The Dean 
monitors the overall work of the Faculty and is responsible for general activities, admission, 
finances, and personnel administration in line with the university’s policies and regulations.


The Faculty publishes two academic journals: Social science Review (Dhaka University Studies, Part-D), 
a bi-annual journal and samajik Biggyan Patrika, an annual journal.
